CD/DVD Inspector is the current incarnation of the optical media
analysis tool from InfinaDyne.

## Capabilities

CD/DVD Inspector is the product of over 10 years of development and the
experience gathered from this. It is currently in use by law
enforcement, government agencies and data recovery companies worldwide.
It has been consistently recommended by Guidance Software as adjuct to
their EnCase product.

CD/DVD Inspector contains a complete re-implementation of the file
systems that are present on CDs, DVDs and Blu-Ray discs. Because of this
it is able to rebuild directory information even when the file system
has been damaged or corrupted. While it is not the only product
available which does this, it is the only one that has been completely
tested by the FBI and Department of Defense as well as having proven
itself in a number of court cases.

## Authors

CD/DVD Inspector has been written by Paul Crowley and Andrew
Dangerfield, both working for InfinaDyne. Paul Crowley has written a
book [CD and DVD
Forensics](http://www.amazon.com/CD-DVD-Forensics-Paul-Crowley/dp/1597491284)
as well.

## History

CD-R Inspector was released in 1999 in response to inquiries from some
individuals in the FBI CART program after looking at CD-R Diagnostic.
They asked for some additional capabilities and this was released as the
CD-R Inspector product. This is considered as version 1 of the product.

In January of 2003 version 2 was released and the product was renamed
CD/DVD Inspector. This release included new hashing capabilities and new
report formats. Version 2 was also made available using a Rainbow (now
SafeNet) dongle. This version received a number of significant
improvements over time, including the addition of robotic support for
the CopyPro MiniMax disc duplicator.

In September of 2006 version 3 of CD/DVD Inspector was released. The
most important addition with this version was the support of ISO image
files and the creation of the Inspector binary image file format. This
allowed CD/DVD Inspector to capture all of the content of any type of
disc in existance and record it into a binary file. Using the companion
product *AccuBurn-R for CD/DVD Inspector*, such binary image files could
be written to disc creating an MD5-exact copy of the original disc.

Version 3 also introduced support for a number of other hardware devices
for robotically handling discs. The devices supported were: WiebeTech
CD-Imager, LSK Delta and LSK Gamma, Primera Bravo, and the Rimage Amiga
II. A camera was available for the CopyPro MiniMax and came standard
with the WiebeTech CD-Imager which allowed for the automatic
photographing of discs as they were processed.

Version 4 of CD/DVD Inspector was released in April of 2009 introducing
a new flexible report generator, support for directly reading E01-type
image files and enhanced robotic support. Support for simultaneous
multiple-drive collection was added for Rimage systems equipped with a
camera. New robotic hardware support included the Rimage Professional
and Producer lines, and MF Digital Scribe and Director. All of the new
systems could be equipped with a camera and the camera is currently
standard with the MF Digital systems. Early in 2010 support for TEAC
disc publishing systems was introduced.

While support for Rimage systems continues, the relationship with Rimage
deteriorated and no new licenses are being sold. Rimage released a
relatively weak competing robotic collection software and hardware
product in 2010 which copies a number of the functions of CD/DVD
Inspector but without providing analysis capabilities or supporting any
real file system analysis or recovery. The support for TEAC systems
functionally replaced the role that the Rimage systems were filling.

Version 4.1 of CD/DVD Inspector was released in April of 2010. This
introduced some new hashing capabilities and better reporting for
robotic systems. This release also fully enabled simultaneous
multiple-drive collection on all robotic hardware where a camera is
present.

As of December 2010 CD/DVD Inspector has to distinct versions: Robotic
and Workstation. For Robotic systems hardware from CopyPro, MF Digital,
Primera and TEAC can be used.