---
tags:
  - No Category
---
<http://www.isac.uma.es/esorics08/cfp.html>

CALL FOR PAPERS Papers offering novel research contributions in any
aspect of computer security are solicited for submission to the
Thirteenth European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORICS
2008). The primary focus is on high-quality original unpublished
research, case studies and implementation experiences. We encourage
submissions of papers discussing industrial research and development.
Proceedings will be published by Springer in the Lecture Notes in
Computer Science (LNCS) series.

Papers submission Submitted papers must not substantially overlap papers
that have been published or that are simultaneously submitted to a
journal or a conference with proceedings. Papers should be at most 15
pages excluding the bibliography and well-marked appendices (using
11-point font), and at most 20 pages total. Committee members are not
required to read the appendices, and so the paper should be intelligible
without them. Authors must submit their paper using the conference web
site following the requirements stated there.

Submissions must be received by March 31, 2008 in order to be
considered. Notifications will be sent to authors by June 16, 2008.
Authors of accepted papers must be prepared to sign a copyright
statement and must guarantee that their paper will be presented at the
conference. Authors of accepted papers must follow the Springer
Information for Authorsâ€™ guidelines for the preparation of the
manuscript and use the templates provided there.

A one page Call for Papers that can be posted on your local bulletin.
Please circulate.