![<File:logo.jpg>](logo.jpg "File:logo.jpg")

Responder™ Professional is a Windows™ physical memory forensics and
automated malware analysis tool. It is an application that is known for
its ease of use, streamlined workflow, and rapid results. The
Professional platform is designed for Incident Responders, Malware
Analysts, and Computer Forensic Investigators who require actionable
intelligence quickly. Responder Professional provides powerful memory
forensics, malware detection, and software behavioral identification
with Digital DNA™.

## Memory Preservation

FDPro is included with Responder™ Professional. FDPro is the most
complete memory acquisition software in the industry. FDPro is the only
application that can preserve Windows™ physical memory and Pagefile for
information security and computer forensic purposes.

## Memory Analysis

Critical computer artifacts are found only in live memory. Responder™
makes it easy to uncover, identify, and report on critical information
with easy to use and intuitive GUI designed to support investigation
workflow.

![<File:memory_analysis.jpg>](memory_analysis.jpg "File:memory_analysis.jpg")

## Malware Detection with Digital DNA™

Digital DNA™ is a revolutionary technology designed to detect advanced
computer security threats within physical memory. All memory is analyzed
offline as a file; there is no active code to thwart analysis. Digital
DNA™ does not rely on the Windows operating system since the host is
assumed to be compromised and thus not trusted. All executable code in
memory is scanned, scored, and ranked by level of severity based upon
programmed software behaviors.

![<File:Ddna_image.jpg>](Ddna_image.jpg "File:Ddna_image.jpg")

## Automated Malware Analysis

More computer crimes are involving malware as a method of gaining access
to confidential information. The new face of malware is designed to
never touch the disk and reside only in memory. Important delivery
information, rootkit behaviors, and malware not detected by Anti-Virus
can be easily found using Responder™ Professional.

![<File:Automated_analysis.jpg>](Automated_analysis.jpg "File:Automated_analysis.jpg")

## Reporting

A flexible reporting module is built in for ease of use so you can
quickly deliver the information in a succinct manner to attorneys,
management, or clients.

![<File:Reporting.jpg>](Reporting.jpg "File:Reporting.jpg")

## External Links

<http://www.hbgary.com>