![](Joachim_Metz.jpeg "Joachim_Metz.jpeg")

Joachim Metz is a Digital researcher, IT/IS specialist.

In 2006 he started working in the field of computer forensics as a
digital forensic investigator at Hoffmann Investigations. At that time
Hoffmann Investigations carried out digital forensic investigations for
organisations (private law).

Before that he worked in multiple Information Communication Technology
(ICT) disciplines like: system and network administration, programming,
deployment, etc. and also Information Security (IS). He has been working
in the field of digital forensics for several years now.

*Philosophy warning*

In his opinion digital forensic investigators should be transparent in
both their findings and methods. The statement "the tool provided me
with the evidence" just does not cut it. In his work he experienced a
lot of serious errors in 'digital forensic software' and corresponding
human interpretation, e.g. tools that represent the FAT access date as a
date and time value and is interpreted as such. He has put a lot of
effort in providing alternatives and means to verify findings by
breaking open file formats and improving file recovery methods.

*Ancient history alert*

For him breaking open file formats dates back to Might and Magic 3 save
games and recovering deleted and corrupted files under DOS using
PCTOOLS.

*Marketing alert*

Some of his recent work are file format libraries like:
[libewf](libewf "wikilink"), [liblnk](liblnk "wikilink"),
[libmsiecf](libmsiecf "wikilink"), [libnk2](libnk2 "wikilink"),
[libpff](libpff "wikilink") and [libesedb](libesedb "wikilink") and the
proof-of-concept carving tool called
[revit](ReviveIt_(revit) "wikilink"), which keeps surprising him because
of its versatile application even in recovering NTFS-compressed files.

More info can be found on [libyal](libyal "wikilink").

The challenge he likes about the field of digital forensics is that
there is a lot out there still to be discovered ;-)

[Category:People](Category:People "wikilink")